dev, 3.0: Update aws deployment document (#1348)
pingcap/docs: dev/how-to/deploy/orchestrated/tidb-in-kubernetes/aws-eks.md

## Deploy

> The default setup creates a new VPC and a `t2.micro` instance as the bastion machine, and an EKS cluster with following ec2 instances as worker nodes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default setup creates a new VPC and a `t2.micro` instance as the bastion machine, and an EKS cluster with following EC2 instances as worker nodes:
```

> The default setup creates a new VPC and a `t2.micro` instance as the bastion machine, and an EKS cluster with following ec2 instances as worker nodes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default setup creates a new VPC and a `t2.micro` instance as the bastion machine, and an EKS cluster with following EC2 instances as worker nodes:
```

Outputs:

bastion_ip = [
  "34.219.204.217",
]

> default-cluster_monitor-dns = a82db513ba84511e9af170283460e413-1838961480.us-west-2.elb.amazonaws.com

Reviewer 2: No port output?

Author: Yes

> **Note:**
>
> - Reusing VPC and subnets of an existing EKS cluster is not supported yet due to limitations of AWS and Terraform, so only change this option if you have to use a manually created VPC.
> - The CNI plug-in on the EKS Node reserves some IP resources for each node. When manually creating a VPC, it is recommended to set the subnet mask length to 18~20 to ensure sufficient IP resources.

> An ec2 instance is also created by default as bastion machine to connect to the created TiDB cluster, because the TiDB service is exposed as an [Internal Elastic Load Balancer](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/internal-elastic-load-balancers/). The ec2 instance has MySQL and Sysbench pre-installed, so you can SSH into the ec2 instance and connect to TiDB using the ELB endpoint. You can disable the bastion instance creation by setting `create_bastion` to `false` if you already have an ec2 instance in the VPC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Amazon EC2 instance is also created by default as the bastion machine to connect to the created TiDB cluster. This is because the TiDB service is exposed as an [Internal Elastic Load Balancer](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/internal-elastic-load-balancers/). The EC2 instance has MySQL and Sysbench pre-installed, so you can use SSH to log into the EC2 instance and connect to TiDB using the ELB endpoint. You can disable the bastion instance creation by setting `create_bastion` to `false` if you already have an EC2 instance in the VPC.
```

> The TiDB version and component count are also configurable in `variables.tf`, you can customize these variables to suit your need.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The TiDB version and the number of components are also configurable in `variables.tf`.  You can customize these variables to suit your needs.
```

Currently, the instance type of the TiDB cluster component is not configurable because PD and TiKV depend on [NVMe SSD instance store](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ssd-instance-store.html), and different instance types have different disks.

### Customize a TiDB cluster

> The terraform scripts provide proper default settings for the TiDB cluster in EKS. You can specify an overriding values file in `clusters.tf` for each TiDB cluster. Values of this file will override the default settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The terraform scripts provide proper default settings for the TiDB cluster in EKS. You can specify an overriding values file - `values.yaml` in `clusters.tf` for each TiDB cluster. Values of this file will override the default settings.
```

For example, the default cluster uses `./default-cluster.yaml` as the overriding values file, and the ConfigMap rollout feature is enabled in this file.

> In EKS, some values are not customizable in`values.yaml`, such as the cluster version, replicas, node selectors and taints. These variables are controlled by Terraform to ensure consistency between the infrastructure and TiDB clusters. To customize these variables, you can edit the `clusters.tf` file and change the variables of each `./tidb-cluster` module directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In EKS, some values are not customizable in `values.yaml`, such as the cluster version, replicas, node selectors, and taints. These variables are controlled by Terraform to ensure consistency between the infrastructure and TiDB clusters. To customize these variables, you can edit the variables of each `./tidb-cluster` module in the `clusters.tf` file directly.
```

### Customize TiDB Operator

> You can customize the TiDB operator by specifying a helm values file through the `operator_values` variable. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can customize the TiDB operator by specifying a Helm values file through the `operator_values` variable. For example:
```

  
  # The target EKS, required
  eks_info = local.eks
  # The subnets of node pools of this TiDB cluster, required
  subnets = local.subnets
  # TiDB cluster name, required
  cluster_name    = "example-cluster"
  
  # Helm values file
  override_values = file("example-cluster.yaml")
  # TiDB cluster version
  cluster_version               = "v3.0.0"
  # SSH key of cluster nodes
  ssh_key_name                  = module.key-pair.key_name
  # PD replica number
  pd_count                      = 3
  # TiKV instance type
  pd_instance_type              = "t2.xlarge"
  # TiKV replica number
  tikv_count                    = 3
  # TiKV instance type
  tikv_instance_type            = "t2.xlarge"
  # The storage class used by TiKV, if the TiKV instance type do not have local SSD, you should change it to storage class
  # TiDB replica number
  tidb_count                    = 2
  # TiDB instance type
  tidb_instance_type            = "t2.xlarge"
  # Monitor instance type
  monitor_instance_type         = "t2.xlarge"
  # The version of tidb-cluster helm chart
  tidb_cluster_chart_version    = "v1.0.0-rc.1"
}
```

> **Note:**
>
> The `cluster_name` of each cluster must be unique.

> You can get the DNS name of TiDB service and the Grafana service via `kubectl`. If you want Terraform to print this information, you can add `output` sections in `outputs.tf`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can get the addresses for TiDB and the monitoring service of the created cluster via `kubectl`. If you want the Terraform script to print this information, you can add `output` sections in `outputs.tf`:
```

```hcl
output "example-cluster_tidb-hostname" {
  value = module.example-cluster.tidb_hostname
}

output "example-cluster_monitor-hostname" {
  value = module.example-cluster.monitor_hostname
}
```

> ## Destroy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Destroy clusters
```

It may take some time to finish destroying the cluster.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

``` shell
terraform destroy
```

> **Note:**
>
> * This will destroy your EKS cluster along with all the TiDB clusters you deployed on it.
> * If you do not need the data on the volumes anymore, you have to manually delete the EBS volumes in AWS console after running `terraform destroy`.

## Manage multiple Kubernetes clusters

This section describes the best practice to manage multiple Kubernetes clusters, each with one or more TiDB clusters installed.

> Under the hood, this Terraform module composes several sub-modules:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Terraform module in our case typically combines several sub-modules:
```

Reviewer: Not sure what do you mean by "Under the hood"

- `tidb-operator`, that provisions the Kubernetes control plane for TiDB cluster
- `tidb-cluster`, that creates the resource pool in the target Kubernetes cluster and deploy the TiDB cluster
-  A `VPC` module, a `bastion` module and a `key-pair` module that are dedicated to TiDB on AWS

> The best practice for managing multiple Kubernetes clusters is creating a new directory for each of your Kubernetes clusters, and combine the above modules via Terraform scripts, so that the Terraform states among clusters do not interfere with each other. Here's an example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The best practice for managing multiple Kubernetes clusters is creating a new directory for each of your Kubernetes clusters, and combine the above modules according to your needs via Terraform scripts, so that the Terraform states among clusters do not interfere with each other, and it is convenient to expand. Here's an example:
```

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```shell
# assume we are in the project root
mkdir -p deploy/aws-staging
vim deploy/aws-staging/main.tf
```

The content of `deploy/aws-staging/main.tf` could be:

```hcl
provider "aws" {
  region = "us-west-1"
}

> # create an ssh key to log in the bastion and the Kubernetes node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Creates an SSH key to log in the bastion and the Kubernetes node
```

Reviewer: According to our Code Comment Style, should write as above.

> # create an ssh key to log in the bastion and the Kubernetes node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Creates an SSH key to log in the bastion and the Kubernetes node
```

module "key-pair" {
  source = "../modules/aws/key-pair"

  name = "another-eks-cluster"
  path = "${path.cwd}/credentials/"
}

> # provision a VPC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Provisions a VPC
```

module "vpc" {
  source = "../modules/aws/vpc"

  vpc_name = "another-eks-cluster"
}

> # provision a EKS control plane with tidb-operator installed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Provisions an EKS control plane with TiDB Operator installed
```

module "tidb-operator" {
  source = "../modules/aws/tidb-operator"

  eks_name           = "another-eks-cluster"
  config_output_path = "credentials/"
  subnets            = module.vpc.private_subnets
  vpc_id             = module.vpc.vpc_id
  ssh_key_name       = module.key-pair.key_name
}

> # enforce helm to depend on the EKS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# HACK: enforces Helm to depend on the EKS
```

resource "local_file" "kubeconfig" {
  depends_on        = [module.tidb-operator.eks]
  sensitive_content = module.tidb-operator.eks.kubeconfig
  filename          = module.tidb-operator.eks.kubeconfig_filename
}
provider "helm" {
  alias    = "eks"
  insecure = true
  install_tiller = false
  kubernetes {
    config_path = local_file.kubeconfig.filename
  }
}

> # provision a TiDB cluster in the EKS cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Provisions a TiDB cluster in the EKS cluster
```

module "tidb-cluster-a" {
  source = "../modules/aws/tidb-cluster"
  providers = { 
    helm = "helm.eks"
  }

  cluster_name = "tidb-cluster-a"
  eks          = module.tidb-operator.eks
  ssh_key_name = module.key-pair.key_name
  subnets      = module.vpc.private_subnets
}

> # provision another TiDB cluster in the EKS cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Provisions another TiDB cluster in the EKS cluster
```

module "tidb-cluster-b" {
  source = "../modules/aws/tidb-cluster"
  providers = { 
    helm = "helm.eks"
  }
  
  cluster_name = "tidb-cluster-b"
  eks          = module.tidb-operator.eks
  ssh_key_name = module.key-pair.key_name
  subnets      = module.vpc.private_subnets
}

> # provision a bastion machine to access the TiDB service and worker nodes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Provisions a bastion machine to access the TiDB service and worker nodes
```

module "bastion" {
  source = "../modules/aws/bastion"

  bastion_name             = "another-eks-cluster-bastion"
  key_name                 = module.key-pair.key_name
  public_subnets           = module.vpc.public_subnets
  vpc_id                   = module.vpc.vpc_id
  target_security_group_id = module.tidb-operator.eks.worker_security_group_id
  enable_ssh_to_workers    = true
}

> # print the tidb hostname of tidb-cluster-a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Prints the TiDB hostname of tidb-cluster-a
```

output "cluster-a_tidb-dns" {
  description = "tidb service endpoints"
  value       = module.tidb-cluster-a.tidb_hostname
}

# print the monitor hostname of tidb-cluster-b
output "cluster-b_monitor-dns" {
  description = "tidb service endpoint"
  value       = module.tidb-cluster-b.monitor_hostname
}

output "bastion_ip" {
  description = "Bastion IP address"
  value       = module.bastion.bastion_ip
}
```

> As shown in the code above, you can omit most of the parameters in each of the module calls because there are reasonable defaults, and it is easy to customize the setup. For example, just delete the bastion module call if you do not need it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As shown in the code above, you can omit most of the parameters in each of the module calls because there are reasonable defaults, and it is easy to customize the configuration. For example, just delete the bastion module call if you do not need it.
```

> To customize each field, you can refer to the default Terraform module. Also, you can always refer to the `variables.tf` file of each module to investigate all the available parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To customize each field, you can refer to the default Terraform module. Also, you can always refer to the `variables.tf` file of each module to learn about all the available parameters.
```

In addition, you can easily integrate these modules into your own Terraform workflow. If you are familiar with Terraform, this is our recommended way of use.

> **Note:**
>
> * When creating a new directory, please pay attention to its relative path to Terraform modules, which affects the `source` parameter during module calls.

> > * If you want to use these modules outside of the tidb-operator project, make sure you copy the whole `modules` directory and keep the relative path of each module inside the directory unchanged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> * If you want to use these modules outside the tidb-operator project, make sure you copy the whole `modules` directory and keep the relative path of each module inside the directory unchanged.
```

You can get the DNS name of TiDB service and grafana service via kubectl. If you want Terraform to print these information like the `default-cluster`, you can add `output` sections in `outputs.tf`:

```hcl
output "example-cluster_tidb-hostname" {
  value = module.example-cluster.tidb_hostname
}

output "example-cluster_monitor-hostname" {
  value = module.example-cluster.monitor_hostname
}
```

## Destroy

It may take some while to finish destroying the cluster.

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

``` shell
terraform destroy
```

> **Note:**
>
> * This will destroy your EKS cluster along with all the TiDB clusters you deployed on it.
> * You have to manually delete the EBS volumes in AWS console after running terraform destroy if you do not need the data on the volumes anymore.

## Multiple Kubernetes Management

This section describes the best practice to manage multiple Kubernetes clusters, each with one or more TiDB clusters installed.

Under the hood, this Terraform module composes several sub-modules:

- `tidb-operator`, that provisions the Kubernetes control plane for TiDB cluster
- `tidb-cluster`, that a TiDB cluster in the target Kubernetes cluster

> - ...and a `VPC` module, a `bastion` module and a `key-pair` module that are dedicated to TiDB on AWS

Reviewer 2: what's the "..." for?

  subnets      = module.vpc.private_subnets
}

# provision a bastion machine to access the TiDB service and worker nodes
module "bastion" {
  source = "../modules/aws/bastion"

  bastion_name             = "another-eks-cluster-bastion"
  key_name                 = module.key-pair.key_name
  public_subnets           = module.vpc.public_subnets
  vpc_id                   = module.vpc.vpc_id
  target_security_group_id = module.tidb-operator.eks.worker_security_group_id
  enable_ssh_to_workers    = true
}

# print the tidb hostname of tidb-cluster-a
output "cluster-a_tidb-dns" {
  description = "tidb service endpoints"
  value       = module.tidb-cluster-a.tidb_hostname
}

# print the monitor hostname of tidb-cluster-b
output "cluster-b_monitor-dns" {
  description = "tidb service endpoint"
  value       = module.tidb-cluster-b.monitor_hostname
}

output "bastion_ip" {
  description = "Bastion IP address"
  value       = module.bastion.bastion_ip
}
```

As shown in the code above, you can omit most of the parameters in each of the module calls because there are reasonable defaults, and it is easy to customize the setup: you just delete the bastion module call if you don't need it.

> To customize each fields, you can refer to this Terraform module as a great example, also, you can always refer to the `variables.tf` of each of the modules to investigate all the available parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To customize each field, you can refer to the default Terraform module. Also, you can always refer to the `variables.tf` file of each module to investigate all the available parameters.
```

> Also, it requires little effort if you want to integrate these modules into your own Terraform codebase, and this is what these modules are designed for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, you can easily integrate these modules into your own Terraform workflow. If you are familiar with Terraform, this is our recommended way of use.
```

> **Note:**
>

> > * If you create the new directory elsewhere, please take care of the relative path of modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> * When creating a new directory, please pay attention to its relative path to Terraform modules, which affects the `source` parameter during module calls.
```

> * If you want to use these modules outside of the tidb-operator project, make sure you copy the whole `modules` directory and keep the relative path of each module inside the directory unchanged.

> > * The hack of helm provider is necessary in case of [hashicorp/terraform#2430](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/2430#issuecomment-370685911), please keep it in your Terraform scripts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> * Due to limitation [hashicorp/terraform#2430](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/2430#issuecomment-370685911) of Terraform, the hack processing of Helm provider is necessary in the above example. It is recommended that you keep it in your own Terraform scripts.
```

> If you are unwilling to touch the Terraform code, copy this directory for each of your Kubernetes clusters also make sense. But note that you cannot copy a directory that you have already run `terraform apply` against because of the local Terraform state file corruption. It is recommended to clone a new repository before copying the directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are unwilling to write Terraform code, you can also copy the `deploy/aws` directory to create new Kubernetes clusters. But note that you cannot copy a directory that you have already run `terraform apply` against, when the Terraform state already exists in local.  In this case, it is recommended to clone a new repository before copying the directory.
```
